README.md, before:

# anthropic-2025-spongebob

## Setting up the mcp-server

## Setting up the Backend

1.  **Navigate to the backend directory:**
    ```bash
    cd backend
    ```
2.  **Create a virtual environment and install dependencies:**
    We recommend using `uv`:
    ```bash
    # Ensure uv is installed (e.g., pip install uv)
    uv venv
    uv pip install . # Install project and dependencies
    source .venv/bin/activate 
    ```
    *(Alternatively, use `python -m venv .venv` and `pip install ...`)*

3.  **Configure Environment Variables:**
    Create a `.env` file in the **project root** (the directory containing `backend/` and `frontend/`) and add your Anthropic API key:
    ```env
    ANTHROPIC_KEY=your_api_key_here
    # Optional: Specify allowed origins for CORS
    # CORS_ORIGINS="http://localhost:3210,http://127.0.0.1:3210"
    ```

4.  **Run the backend server:**
    ```bash
    uvicorn app.main:app --reload --port 8000
    ```
    The server should now be running at `http://localhost:8000`.

## Backend API Specification

The backend provides the following REST API endpoints:

### `GET /check`

*   **Purpose:** A simple health check endpoint.
*   **Method:** `GET`
*   **Request:** None
*   **Response:**
    *   `200 OK`: Returns a JSON object `{"message": "hello world"}`.

### `POST /api/upload`

*   **Purpose:** Uploads a PDF file to the server's `files/` directory.
*   **Method:** `POST`
*   **Request:**
    *   `Content-Type`: `multipart/form-data`
    *   `file`: The PDF file to upload. The server currently only accepts files with a `.pdf` extension.
*   **Response:**
    *   `200 OK`: Returns a JSON object `{"pdf_name": "your_file_name_without_extension"}` upon successful upload.
    *   `400 Bad Request`: If the uploaded file is not a PDF or if there's an issue with the request format.
    *   `500 Internal Server Error`: If the server fails to save the file.
*   **Example Usage:** See `backend/tests/test_upload.py`.

### `POST /api/chat`

*   **Purpose:** Sends a chat message history to the Claude model via an MCP client, potentially using tools defined on an MCP server (`./mcp_server/server.py`), and returns the model's final response.
*   **Method:** `POST`
*   **Request:**
    *   `Content-Type`: `application/json`
    *   **Body:** A JSON object containing a `messages` key. The value should be a list of message objects, following the Anthropic Messages API format (e.g., `[{"role": "user", "content": "Your query here"}]`).
*   **Response:**
    *   `200 OK`: Returns the final text response from the Claude model as a plain text string. This might include text generated directly by the model and placeholders indicating tool calls were made (e.g., `[Calling tool search_pdf with args {'pdf_name': 'WGAN', 'query': 'probability density'}]`). **Note:** The current implementation in `orchestrator.py` handles tool calls sequentially and may not fully support complex multi-tool interactions in a single turn.
    *   `400 Bad Request`: If the request body is missing, malformed, or the `messages` list is invalid.
    *   `500 Internal Server Error`: If an error occurs during MCP client setup, connection to the server, or processing the query with Claude.

## Running Tests

A simple test script is provided to check basic functionality.

1.  **Ensure the backend server is running** (see steps above).

2.  **Install development dependencies (if not already done):**
    The test script requires the `requests` library. Install it and other dev dependencies:
    ```bash
    # Navigate to the backend directory first if you aren't there
    cd backend 
    # Activate your virtual environment (e.g., source .venv/bin/activate)
    uv pip install --extra dev 
    # Or if you installed the project with 'uv pip install .':
    # uv pip install requests
    ```

3.  **Run the test script:**
    From the **backend** directory:
    ```bash
    python tests/test_upload.py
    ```
    Or, using `uv` from the **backend** directory:
    ```bash
    uv run python tests/test_upload.py
    ```
    The script will print `Test PASSED` or `Test FAILED`.

## OpenAI-Compatible API Endpoints

The backend now provides OpenAI-compatible endpoints for using with Open WebUI:

### Setup

1. Start the backend server:
   ```bash
   cd backend
   source .venv/bin/activate
   uvicorn app.main:app --reload --port 8000
   ```

   Or simply run the provided script:
   ```bash
   ./start_backend.sh
   ```

2. Configure Open WebUI to use the backend:
   - Set API Base URL: `http://127.0.0.1:8000/v1`
   - Any value can be used for the API key as it's not verified

### Available Endpoints:

- `GET /v1/models` - Lists available models (currently only shows the "pdf-master" model)
- `POST /v1/chat/completions` - Processes chat messages with OpenAI-compatible format
- `POST /api/v1/files/` - Uploads PDF files and returns compatible metadata

### Working with Files

The backend supports uploading and referencing PDF files:

1. **Uploading Files**:
   ```bash
   curl -F "file=@sample.pdf" http://127.0.0.1:8000/api/v1/files/
   ```

2. **Using Files in Chat**:
   ```bash
   curl -X POST http://127.0.0.1:8000/v1/chat/completions \
     -H "Content-Type: application/json" \
     -d '{
       "model": "pdf-master", 
       "messages": [{"role": "user", "content": "What is in this document?"}], 
       "files": [{"type": "file", "id": "YOUR_FILE_ID"}]
     }'
   ```

### Testing

You can test all endpoints with curl:

```bash
# Test models endpoint
curl http://127.0.0.1:8000/v1/models

# Test chat endpoint (streaming mode)
curl -X POST http://127.0.0.1:8000/v1/chat/completions \
  -H "Content-Type: application/json" \
  -d '{"model":"pdf-master", "messages":[{"role":"user","content":"hi"}]}'

# Test chat endpoint (non-streaming mode)
curl -X POST http://127.0.0.1:8000/v1/chat/completions \
  -H "Content-Type: application/json" \
  -d '{"model":"pdf-master", "messages":[{"role":"user","content":"hi"}], "stream":false}'
```

### Integration with Real Chat Processing

The current implementation is a simple echo service. To integrate with actual PDF search functionality, 
you'll need to modify `backend/app/openai_echo.py` to connect with your existing PDF processing pipeline. 

The `completions` function already detects file references in the format Open WebUI sends them:
```python
files = body.get("files", [])
if files:
    # Process each file ID and fetch content as needed
    for file in files:
        file_id = file.get("id")
        file_type = file.get("type", "file")
        # Connect to your PDF search pipeline here
```

Commit message:

maybe work. dummy message + real pdf process

README.md, after:

# anthropic-2025-spongebob

## Setting up the mcp-server

## Setting up the Backend

1.  **Navigate to the backend directory:**
    ```bash
    cd backend
    ```
2.  **Create a virtual environment and install dependencies:**
    We recommend using `uv`:
    ```bash
    # Ensure uv is installed (e.g., pip install uv)
    uv venv
    uv pip install . # Install project and dependencies
    source .venv/bin/activate 
    ```
    *(Alternatively, use `python -m venv .venv` and `pip install ...`)*

3.  **Configure Environment Variables:**
    Create a `.env` file in the **project root** (the directory containing `backend/` and `frontend/`) and add your Anthropic API key:
    ```env
    ANTHROPIC_KEY=your_api_key_here
    # Optional: Specify allowed origins for CORS
    # CORS_ORIGINS="http://localhost:3210,http://127.0.0.1:3210"
    ```

4.  **Run the backend server:**
    ```bash
    uvicorn app.main:app --reload --port 8000
    ```
    The server should now be running at `http://localhost:8000`.

## Backend API Specification

The backend provides the following REST API endpoints:

### `GET /check`

*   **Purpose:** A simple health check endpoint.
*   **Method:** `GET`
*   **Request:** None
*   **Response:**
    *   `200 OK`: Returns a JSON object `{"message": "hello world"}`.

### `POST /api/upload`

*   **Purpose:** Uploads a PDF file to the server's `files/` directory.
*   **Method:** `POST`
*   **Request:**
    *   `Content-Type`: `multipart/form-data`
    *   `file`: The PDF file to upload. The server currently only accepts files with a `.pdf` extension.
*   **Response:**
    *   `200 OK`: Returns a JSON object `{"pdf_name": "your_file_name_without_extension"}` upon successful upload.
    *   `400 Bad Request`: If the uploaded file is not a PDF or if there's an issue with the request format.
    *   `500 Internal Server Error`: If the server fails to save the file.
*   **Example Usage:** See `backend/tests/test_upload.py`.

### `POST /api/chat`

*   **Purpose:** Sends a chat message history to the Claude model via an MCP client, potentially using tools defined on an MCP server (`./mcp_server/server.py`), and returns the model's final response.
*   **Method:** `POST`
*   **Request:**
    *   `Content-Type`: `application/json`
    *   **Body:** A JSON object containing a `messages` key. The value should be a list of message objects, following the Anthropic Messages API format (e.g., `[{"role": "user", "content": "Your query here"}]`).
*   **Response:**
    *   `200 OK`: Returns the final text response from the Claude model as a plain text string. This might include text generated directly by the model and placeholders indicating tool calls were made (e.g., `[Calling tool search_pdf with args {'pdf_name': 'WGAN', 'query': 'probability density'}]`). **Note:** The current implementation in `orchestrator.py` handles tool calls sequentially and may not fully support complex multi-tool interactions in a single turn.
    *   `400 Bad Request`: If the request body is missing, malformed, or the `messages` list is invalid.
    *   `500 Internal Server Error`: If an error occurs during MCP client setup, connection to the server, or processing the query with Claude.

## Running Tests

A simple test script is provided to check basic functionality.

1.  **Ensure the backend server is running** (see steps above).

2.  **Install development dependencies (if not already done):**
    The test script requires the `requests` library. Install it and other dev dependencies:
    ```bash
    # Navigate to the backend directory first if you aren't there
    cd backend 
    # Activate your virtual environment (e.g., source .venv/bin/activate)
    uv pip install --extra dev 
    # Or if you installed the project with 'uv pip install .':
    # uv pip install requests
    ```

3.  **Run the test script:**
    From the **backend** directory:
    ```bash
    python tests/test_upload.py
    ```
    Or, using `uv` from the **backend** directory:
    ```bash
    uv run python tests/test_upload.py
    ```
    The script will print `Test PASSED` or `Test FAILED`.

## OpenAI-Compatible API Endpoints

The backend provides OpenAI-compatible endpoints for using with Open WebUI:

### Setup

1. Start the backend server:
   ```bash
   cd backend
   source .venv/bin/activate
   uvicorn app.main:app --reload --port 8000
   ```

   Or simply run the provided script:
   ```bash
   ./start_backend.sh
   ```

2. Configure Open WebUI to use the backend:
   - Set API Base URL: `http://127.0.0.1:8000/v1`
   - Any value can be used for the API key as it's not verified

### Available Endpoints:

- `GET /v1/models` - Lists available models (currently only shows the "pdf-master" model)
- `POST /v1/chat/completions` - Processes chat messages with OpenAI-compatible format
- `POST /api/v1/files/` - Uploads PDF files and returns compatible metadata

### PDF Search and Question Answering

The backend now includes a fully integrated PDF search and question answering system:

1. **PDF Upload and Search:**
   - Upload your PDF files using the OpenAI-compatible files endpoint
   - The system will search the PDF file for relevant content matching your query
   - Search is performed on both exact matches and important keywords from your question

2. **AI-Powered Responses:**
   - The system uses Claude (via the Anthropic API) to generate accurate answers based only on the content found in your PDF
   - The assistant will cite information directly from the document when possible
   - If information isn't found in the document, the assistant will clearly indicate this

3. **Search Strategy:**
   - The system first tries to match your whole query
   - If no exact matches are found, it searches for individual keywords in your question
   - Results are ranked by relevance and provided to Claude for synthesis

### Working with Files

The backend supports uploading and referencing PDF files:

1. **Uploading Files**:
   ```bash
   curl -F "file=@sample.pdf" http://127.0.0.1:8000/api/v1/files/
   ```

2. **Using Files in Chat**:
   ```bash
   curl -X POST http://127.0.0.1:8000/v1/chat/completions \
     -H "Content-Type: application/json" \
     -d '{
       "model": "pdf-master", 
       "messages": [{"role": "user", "content": "What is in this document?"}], 
       "files": [{"type": "file", "id": "YOUR_FILE_ID"}]
     }'
   ```

### Testing

You can test the PDF functionality using the provided test script:

```bash
# From the backend directory
python tests/test_pdf_chat.py
```

This script verifies that:
1. The server is running correctly
2. The models endpoint returns the expected model
3. Basic chat functionality works
4. PDF files can be uploaded successfully
5. Chat with file references properly processes the PDF and returns relevant information
6. Streaming mode works correctly with PDF responses
